The Project Gutenberg eBook of The knowledge machine, by Edmond
Hamilton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The knowledge machine

Author: Edmond Hamilton

Release Date: December 30, 2022 [eBook #69665]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KNOWLEDGE MACHINE ***





The Knowledge Machine

By EDMOND HAMILTON

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Thrilling Wonder Stories June 1948.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I wish now I'd never heard of Electro-Education! Sure, it made me a
multi-millionaire. But what else did it do to me? What did it do to
everybody?

The trouble with me was that I was too ambitious. I had a nice wife and
we were planning on a family. I wasn't satisfied with just being Pete
Purdy, the best electric repair-man in New York. I wanted something
bigger and better for _my_ family. Boy, did I get it!

It began when I was called over to Gotham University to repair a
motor-generator that had gone sour. It was in the laboratory of Doctor
Lewis Kindler, the big psycho-physiologist research man there. Of
course, I didn't know then who he was. To me, he was just a thin,
haggard old guy who looked like a nervous wreck as he told me about the
generator.

"It must be repaired immediately--at once!" he shrilled. "We're just
completing an epochal research. Epochal, you hear?"

I shrugged. "I'll do the best I can. But this model's complicated.
It'll take a week to rip her down and rewind the coils."

"A week?" he screeched. "Impossible! We can't wait that long!"

His colleague, a stocky, bullet-headed young scientist named James
Carter, tried to soothe the old boy down.

"Doctor Kindler, you really must rest! You have been working too hard
for months on these experiments. You know now it's a success. Why not
try to relax?"

"Relax?" screamed the old scientist. And then, all of a sudden, he went
clean off his head.

He just collapsed, raving about rays and neurones and a lot of other
stuff. Young Carter called doctors and officials of the university
quick. They took him away, yelling at the top of his voice.

Next morning as I was working in the laboratory on the generator,
Carter came in looking pretty blue.

"Doctor Kindler has had a complete mental breakdown from overwork," he
told me. "He's been removed to a sanitarium, and may remain there in a
schizophrenic state for years."

"Schizophrenic? That's tough." I wondered what it meant. "I guess the
old man was a pretty big shot in science, huh?"

"We had just completed the greatest discovery in the history of
psychology," Carter said. "He was tops in the field."

I kept on working at the generator, while young James Carter walked up
and down the laboratory looking pretty moody.

He kept staring at a big machine in the corner. It was nothing I could
recognize, for I'm a good electrician but these crazy scientific
hookups are way over my head. To me, it looked something like a
permanent wave machine, with a metal cap like the dames put over their
heads.

Carter spoke as though he was talking to himself, gritting his teeth as
he looked at that big machine.

"A discovery that means millions, billions! If I only had enough money
to develop and exploit it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I pricked up my ears at that. Scientific discoveries don't interest me
so much, but millions interest anybody.

"What is the thing?" I asked. "Some new kind of rig for atomic power?"

"No, no, it's nothing like that," Carter muttered. "It deals with the
mind. I could revolutionize the world with this thing if I had money
enough to develop improved apparatus."

"Won't the university put up the dough for the stuff you need?" I asked
him.

He laughed kind of sour. "Of course they would. But they would also
then appropriate all title to it. Whereas if I could develop it myself,
it would make me the richest man in history."

That interested me a lot. Here was I, Pete Purdy, with ambitions for
Helen and the family we planned to have, and maybe I'd stumbled on a
chance to get in on the ground floor of something big.

I got up and went over to Carter and looked at the machine with him.

"How much dough would you need for new apparatus?" I asked. "And what
is the discovery, anyway?"

Carter looked at me, his eyes narrowing a little as though he saw me
for the first time.

"You mean that you might be interested in investing in it, Birdy?"

"Purdy," I said, and I hedged a little then. "I don't know. I've saved
some money and also my wife's Uncle Dimblewitt left her a legacy last
year. We've got thirty thousand and I was figuring to open up my own
electric repair-shop when I got a little more."

Carter bit his lip. "Thirty thousand," he muttered. "It might be done
with that. It just might."

"Hold on, don't spend my dough so fast!" I told him. "First, what is
the gadget?"

He got all eager and excited as he explained. "It's a new method of
education."

"Oh!" I said, and I guess my voice was plenty flat. "Well, that's fine.
But I don't think there'd be much profit in that."

"You don't know what you're talking about!" Carter blazed. "This method
of education is _new_! It's something entirely undreamed of until
now."

He asked me:

"When you learn something, when you learn that the Earth is round, for
instance, how does your brain do it?"

"I don't know," I said. "How does it?"

"The nerve-cells of your brain, the neurones, already contain the
ideas of _Earth_ and _round_," he explained. "Constant
repetition of 'Earth is round' establishes a connection between the two
neurone-groups, by gradually lowering the resistance at the synapses of
neurone-contacts. Thus, when in future you think of _Earth_, the
thought-impulse flashes along that low-resistance path to the specific
neurones containing _round_."

Being an electrician, I could dimly understand that.

"So that's how it's done?" I said. "And that's why you have to study
things so long to learn them?"

Carter nodded quickly. "Long study and repetition establishes the
neural paths necessary for remembering. But suppose, by applying a
tiny electronic impulse from outside, you could _artificially_
establish a low-resistance path between those two neurone-groups?"

I got that, too. "Then I'd know that 'Earth is round' without having to
bother learning it?"

"That's the idea!" Carter said. "And that's what Doctor Kindler has
been working on for years. I worked with him, of course," he added
hastily. "The discovery is as much mine as his.

"You see," he went on, "we invented a scanner that can change the
labyrinthine neural-connections of the brain by tiny electronic
impulses, just as you can rewire that generator's coils. With it, we
can set up any desired neural paths in an instant by applying just the
right electronic impulses at the right points in the network.

"Any ordinary set of facts requires thousands of new neural paths in
the brain. To learn a subject like Sanskrit, for instance, requires
tens of thousands. The scanner can put these new neural connections
in your brain in a flash, by projecting a pre-determined pattern of
electronic impulses."

"Can it be done?" I asked him.

"We _proved_ it could be done!" Carter told me. "Doctor Kindler
knew French, and I didn't. The scanner first scanned his neural
patterns, isolated those having to do with word-meanings, and recorded
them on a moving tape. Then we ran the tape back, reversing the scanner
so it would repeat that pattern of electronic impulses on my own brain.
It took ten minutes. At the end of that time, I knew French perfectly!"

       *       *       *       *       *

That was a little hard to swallow.

"You mean, you didn't have to study it or anything?" I said. "You just
knew it, all of a sudden?"

"Exactly," said Carter. "I see you look incredulous. I can soon prove
the thing by running the same tape through on you."

He grabbed the big metal cap that was connected to the machine by a lot
of cables, and jammed it down on my head.

I began to protest. I didn't like the idea of anybody fooling around
with my mind. But Carter switched on the machine before I could stop
him.

There was a humming, and a tape started unwinding inside the machine.
I didn't feel anything except a queer tingling in my head. In a few
minutes the humming stopped, and the tingling stopped too.

Carter took the metal cap off me and looked at me.

"Well, I don't feel any different," I told him.

"_Vous savez le francais maintenant?_" he shot at me.

"_Oui, parfaitement_," I shot right back at him. "_Mais_--"

I broke off, and goggled. "Holy cats, it worked! I do know French, just
like that!"

I did, too. I could speak it as easy as English. And I'd never known a
word of it in my life before. The thing floored me.

"Now do you believe?" Carter asked.

"And how!" I managed to say. "But I still don't see how there's
millions to be made from it."

"Think, man!" he said. "It takes a student four years and several
thousand dollars to get a university education. Suppose he can go in
and get it off tapes for a few hundred dollars?"

The possibilities of it hit me, just like that. "Say, there'd be
millions of students for prospects, every year!"

"And college students are only a small part of the market," Carter
pointed out. "Everybody would like to know more than they do. Everybody
would like to know higher mathematics or Latin or architecture or a
hundred other subjects. They don't learn them because it takes too much
time and work to study them. But if they can just buy them?"

"Why, there's no limit to the market!" I said. "How many different
subjects could you pour into a guy's brain with the thing?"

Carter explained that there was a limit to that. "The potential neural
paths in each brain are limited in number. We found that the average
person has a neural index that will allow him to absorb the equivalent
of a Ph.D. education from the tapes, but not much more."

He added quickly:

"But there'd be a chance for repeat business even so. The scanner
can _erase_ this new-found knowledge from the brain, by using a
neutralizing electronic impulse. Then the student can learn entirely
new subjects."

Right then and there, I saw my big opportunity and I grabbed it.

"You can count me in!" I told him. "But mind, if I put up the dough for
the apparatus, I get one-third interest."

"One-third?" said Carter, kind of puzzled.

"Sure, one-third for me, a third for you, and a third for Doc Kindler,"
I reminded him.

"Oh, certainly," Carter said hastily. "I'll put Doctor Kindler's share
in trust for him. But you understand we'd better not use his name at
all in developing this. It would prejudice people if they learned that
the co-inventor of the method is now a mental wreck."

Next day, without telling Helen, I drew out our thirty thousand and
Carter and I signed the partnership papers.

He'd kept Doc Kindler's name out, as he said. And he'd decided to call
our firm the "Electro-Education Company."

Carter rented a small building up in the Bronx, and there we put up the
apparatus that he assembled from the stuff I bought.

"How about those learning-tapes, Carter?" I asked him at the end of the
week. "We've got to be able to sell people more than just French."

He grinned at me. "I've got a lot of tapes on every subject, all ready.
You see, some of the best scientists and scholars in the world are on
Gotham University's faculty. Under pretext of X-raying their brains, I
used the scanner to make tapes of everything they know."

That kind of shocked me. "It sounds like stealing their knowledge,
without them suspecting it. I don't want anything like that."

"Stealing?" Carter answered quickly. "Why, of course not! We'll pay
them a fat royalty every time we use the tapes, of course."

We tried the tapes out on each other. They worked fine. I went home
that night, bursting with a dozen professors' knowledge.

       *       *       *       *       *

Helen had her brother Harry and his wife for dinner that night. Harry
has always snooted me, on account I'm an electrician while he went to
college and works in an office.

Tonight, I was loaded for bear when he started making one of his
highbrow cracks to show off. It was a crack about astronomy.

"Harry, you're a million miles off base," I told him. "The Riemannian
conception of space you're talking about is a dead pigeon. It's been
proved mathematically--" and here I went into the equations.

Helen and Harry and his wife all looked at me bug-eyed. I kind of
enjoyed it, and I carried on from there.

I delved into ancient history, gave some chatty remarks on modern
biophysical theory, and then compared a Sanskrit drama with an old
Greek tragedy by quoting yards of each in the original.

"Where in the name of all that's holy did you pick up all that, Pete?"
gasped Harry.

I just laughed lightly. "Oh, I'm not one to brag about my learning. I
kind of like to keep my lamp hid underneath a bushel."

"I notice that your grammar is still hidden under a bushel," Helen,
like a wife does, put in.

That dashed me a little. I'd forgotten that my grammar still wasn't so
hot. We hadn't had any tape on elementary English Grammar.

That night after the others went, I told Helen the whole story and how
our money was now invested in the Electro-Education Company.

She hit the sky. I had been trapped by a swindler, I was an idiot, and
we were going to die in the poorhouse. Next morning she went with me to
give Carter what-for and demand our money back.

Carter handled her beautifully. He inveigled her to put on the
learning-cap, and then shot French, Music, Art and a lot of other stuff
into her. From then on, Helen was enthusiastic.

[Illustration: Carter persuaded Helen to put on the learning-cap.]

So next week, we hung out a sign and advertised in the newspapers.
Carter had written the ad, and it was a good one.

"Do you want to know more?" it asked. "Do you yearn to learn? But are
you repelled by the dreary prospect of months and years of study?

"Electro-Education is the answer! Study, classrooms, schools, are now
obsolete. We guarantee to bestow on you in a few hours enough higher
education to pass any university's graduation examinations."

Next morning we found a half-dozen prospects waiting to get into our
Electro-Education shop. Only it turned out they were all reporters who
had come to write funny pieces about our project.

Carter was smart. He didn't get mad, he just kidded them along and
got one of them to try a sample course. Then he shot a full course of
Higher Accounting into that chap.

It seems that that reporter was a guy who never had been able to add
two and two, he had such a blind spot for arithmetic. When he got up
and realized how much he knew, he let out a yell.

The other newshawks accused him of faking, at first. But the argument
induced some of the others to try it. Carter gave them Chinese, Nuclear
Physics, anything they asked.

That night Electro-Education hit the front pages of the newspapers with
a bang! Some of the articles still claimed it was a fake, but a lot of
the writers swore it worked. The result was that we had a crowd around
our EE shop next day.

Most of them were just curious, but there were a few with money enough
and curiosity enough to try a few tapes. When they went out and told
the crowd about it, others started coming in.

Being near Gotham University, in two days we were handling a crowd of
students so big they lined up for blocks. They came in with their money
clutched in their hot little hands, and they went out crammed with
every bit of knowledge their own professors had.

Then after three days, the Better Business Bureau, the District
Attorney's office, and the police all came down on us.

"This thing is a barefaced swindle of some kind and I shall see that
these two men get prison for it," the D.A. announced.

Carter had been expecting just that, and had a lawyer all ready when
the preliminary hearing was held.

He brought in our witnesses--joyful college students who had quit going
to classes altogether because they were dead sure of passing anyway.

Then Carter sprung his clincher.

"Your Honor," he said to the judge, "the courtroom janitor has agreed
for a consideration to let me demonstrate Electro-Education on him. Is
the court agreeable?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The court was agreeable. So right there in the courtroom, Carter set up
our EE apparatus and used it on the janitor.

This janitor was a big fatheaded old guy they called "Puddinghead," on
account everyone around court knew how dumb he was.

Well, Carter shot all our law courses into him. He gave him not only
Civil Law, Criminal Law, Corporation Law and Theory of Jurisprudence,
he also gave him graduate courses in such fancy stuff as the Justinian
Code and Medieval Ecclesiastical Law.

When it was over, and it took little more than an hour, old Puddinghead
got up and talked. He not only proved that he knew everything now about
the law--he proved that the judge himself was woefully ignorant about a
lot of it.

"Electro-Education is obviously all it claims to be," said the judge
quickly, to stop this painful exposé. "Case dismissed."

The courtroom exploded with excitement. Reporters crowded wildly around
Carter. I found the judge himself plucking my arm.

"Mr. Purdy, in confidence, could you give me those courses too?" the
judge asked timidly.

Overnight, Electro-Education became the sensation of the country. It
was like a bomb going off.

I'll admit that it sort of floored me. I'm a modest kind of a guy. I'd
figured on profits, on maybe even a chain of education-shops some day,
but I hadn't figured on what EE rapidly became.

It didn't grow--it exploded. Within a month, Carter had branches
started or underway in every big city in the country. He'd bought up a
factory to turn out the EE apparatus. We trained our own operators. It
was simple, since we just ran an EE tape to teach them.

Our advertising plastered the newspapers, the billboards, the radio. We
made the whole country EE conscious, overnight. One of our best ads was:

                   WHY GO TO COLLEGE FOR KNOWLEDGE?

              Would You Drive a Horse and Buggy To Work?

                       GET SMART THE MODERN WAY!

And there was a big billboard picture that showed a guy sitting with
one of our EE caps on his head. It advised:

                         DON'T BE DUMB, CHUM!

                    Put On Your Learning-Cap Today!

For the classier trade, the advertising men had worked out displays
that showed a dumb cluck cringing in the middle of a lot of
brilliant-looking conversationalists.

"Do you envy your friends when they discuss learned subjects?" the ad
asked. "Why be inferior? EE will make a new man of you mentally."

They poured into our EE shops. They came in such droves that the police
had to establish lines at every shop.

Carter and I had big offices down in the Monarch State Building, by
now. My work wasn't hard--I arrived at eleven each morning, smoked a
cigar, and then went to lunch for a few hours. The afternoon was not
quite so tough.

But Carter really worked. I never saw a guy with so much ambition. It
kind of scared me, the way he kept EE mushrooming out bigger and bigger
each day.

The universities and colleges had gone nuts. They tried first to
suppress us but they couldn't. They forbade their professors to sell us
knowledge-tapes. But we offered such big money that the professors did
let us put their stuff on tapes, on the sly.

So the universities just gave up and closed their doors, all except a
few bitter-enders. Then it was the turn of the high schools and the
public schools.

Senators got up in the State Legislatures and demanded a new
educational system.

"Why should we support a vast, expensive, outmoded school-system when
EE can give every child better schooling at a fraction of the cost?"
they asked.

The teachers all fought that, of course. But what chance did they have?
The taxpayers didn't want to keep up the schools. The parents didn't
want to, when their kids could learn it all so easy by EE. And the kids
themselves sure were wholehearted for EE from the start.

The result was that the State set up, instead of schools, EE
dispensaries in which our own operators gave the kids their stuff.
Every kid had to go to school--one hour a year. He got his year's work
shot into him by tape, and that was that. And the State paid us a set
fee for every pupil.

Money? It came in by tons, by carloads. All over the country, all over
most of the world, EE was replacing the schools and colleges. And still
Carter wasn't satisfied.

"What we have got to avoid is saturation of the market, Pete," he told
me. "As soon as everyone is full of knowledge, they will quit buying
education."

"Well, there will still be the new generation of students each year and
that brings in a big, steady profit," I said.

"That's not enough," he said in his determined way. "What we need is
repeat business, like the movie industry gets. I'll work on that."

And he did. He got big new advertising campaigns planned, that kept the
public needled by successive waves of advertising.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a while, we plugged science. A man couldn't understand the world
unless he was full of science. A woman should be ashamed to meet her
bridge-club if she couldn't discuss higher physics or colloid chemistry.

It wore people down, all right. A lot of them came in and had us erase
other stuff and fill them chock-full of science.

When a man reached his neural capacity we had to erase to put new
knowledge in, of course. We'd had a few sad experiences with guys who
wanted to know absolutely everything and who went batty from too much
EE. To avoid trouble with the law, our operators were strict on that
now.

When our sale of science-subjects began to fall off, we switched our
advertising to concentrate on art. We made expert knowledge of art
all the rage. Sure enough, people came in by thousands to have their
science knowledge erased so they could take on a cargo of art.

Carter had worked out advertising that made young people good repeat
customers, too. If they didn't feel satisfied in their professions, why
not try a new one?

Lots of young lawyers, for instance, would decide they'd rather be
doctors. They'd simply come in and have their legal knowledge erased,
take on a full course of medical subjects, and hang out a shingle.
Maybe two weeks later they'd be back, wanting now to try engineering.

Me, I was on top of the world, literally. I lived in the highest and
biggest penthouse in town. And Helen was in the clouds, mainly on
account of our new baby boy who had been born a year after we started
EE and who was now husky and thriving.

"And little Percival is going to be proud of his father when he attains
maturity," I told Helen. "Not only because of my wealth, but because
of my erudition."

I really talked like that, by then, for Helen had insisted on me taking
a full course in English Grammar soon after we started business. I had
also taken all the other advanced EE courses my brain would hold, so
that in those days there were few wiser guys than me in the world.

"Yes, dear, it is wonderful to know that Percival can be proud of his
parents when he grows up," Helen said happily.

Well, that's all you ever know about the future. For it was the very
next morning that the whole thing busted.

It busted when an old guy who looked vaguely professorial came crowding
into my office in spite of my four secretaries.

"Are you Peter Purdy, the vice-president of Electro-Education Company?"
he asked me.

"Yes, yes, but if you have a knowledge-record to sell you should take
it to our Knowledge Purchasing Agent," I told him. "I do not handle
details like that."

He just stood and stared at me and then all of a sudden he let out a
yell.

"The electrician!" he yelled, pointing at me wildly.

Suddenly I recognized the old boy, and I got my feet down off the desk
and got out of my chair.

"Dr. Kindler!" I said, all surprised.

It was him, all right--Carter's colleague that had been in a sanitarium
all this time being a schizophreniac. But he didn't look out of his
head now, at all. He just looked mad.

"Doctor, I'm overjoyed to see you," I said. "And so will Carter be. We
had no idea you were cured--"

Doc Kindler interrupted me by shouting at me every dirty name a
scientist could think of.

"You blind fools, to turn my discovery loose on the world without
knowing more about it! You don't know what you may have done!"

Then he shouted even louder:

"Police!"

I hate to tell what followed. When Carter came in and saw the old doc,
he turned a sickly color and started to scram. But the police were
already arriving, and then the whole thing busted wide open.

No need to give you the whole bitter story. It's had publicity enough,
and enough people have called me a dope. I suppose at that it's better
than to be convicted of theft, like Carter.

Yeah, Carter had just deliberately stolen the old doc's invention
and hadn't helped invent it at all, like he told me. He'd figured
Doc Kindler was away in the sanitarium for life, not guessing that
shock-therapy would finally succeed in restoring the old doc's mind.

I don't blame the old doc for blowing up the way he did when he came
back and found out, nor for the names he called me in court. I'd rather
be called "a stupid stooge" than a thief, any day.

Sure, they took the penthouse and the big bank-account and everything
else away from me. I was lucky that they gave me back my original
thirty thousand. Doc Kindler had relented enough to me to stipulate
that, when he turned all rights in EE over to the Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

You know what the first thing was that I did when I got out of court
that day? I went into the nearest EE shop and had them erase every
course I had, even my grammar.

And I did it because I was worried. I was worried by what Doc Kindler
had said that day in the courtroom.

"My crooked assistant and this dolt Purdy whom he deceived didn't
realize all they were doing when they exploited my discovery!" Kindler
said. "When I collapsed, my experiments with Electro-Education were not
yet complete.

"I had discovered that the minute electronic impulses used in
Electro-Education have a permanent effect on the germ-plasm as well as
the soma, but hadn't yet found out what the effect is."

"Will you state your meaning in less technical terms, doctor?" the
judge asked.

Kindler's voice was grave. "I mean that the EE impulses have a powerful
mutational effect on the genes that control the brain-development of
the unborn child."

I got worried.

"Is my little boy going to be dotty because Helen and I took a lot of
EE before he was born?" I asked him.

"That, I can't say yet," Kindler said grimly. "I was trying to
determine the nature of the effect when I collapsed, and you let Carter
talk you into appropriating my work."

That was what scared me into having all my EE erased before I went
home that night. And Helen threw a fit when she heard about it.

"Now don't get hysterical," I begged. "The doc said he didn't know what
the effect on Percival would be. It might not be so bad."

"But you and I were almost the first people to take EE, and whatever's
going to happen to people's babies because of it, will happen first to
Percival!" she sobbed.

We went in and hung over his crib. I couldn't see a thing wrong with
him and I said so. He was as fat, healthy-looking a year-old baby as
you'd want to see, as he lay there looking up at us.

"Yes, but what about his mind?" Helen sobbed. "He should be trying to
talk by now, but he hasn't said a word."

"Maybe I could get him to talk, if I worked hard enough with him,"
I said desperately. I chucked Percival under the chin. "Say mama,
Percival! _Kuchy, kuchy_--say mama!"

Percival opened his mouth and spoke. He spoke in a rather wobbly and
shrill little voice.

"I presume, Father," he said, "that the encouraging sounds you are
directing at me are onomatopoeic in origin and are designed to
stimulate the faculty of imitation. Nevertheless, I must beg you not to
continue making such utterances."

Helen and I gaped at each other. "He talked!" I choked out. "He talked
like a professor! You heard him!"

Helen stared, wide-eyed. "But he never said a word before--not a word!"

Percival appeared to be bored. "Really, you could hardly expect me to
join in the sort of unintelligent conversation that goes on in this
house!"

Yeah, that was the effect of EE's electronic impulses on the unborn.
Every EE course that Helen and I had ever taken was in Percival's brain
when he was born! The fact that we'd had our own knowledge erased
hadn't affected him in the least.

And I was going to have a son that would look up to me. That is a
laugh. Our Percival loves his parents, but we will never see the day
when we know half as much as he did when he was born!

It was the same with all the other kids born after EE, of course. Every
last one of them came into the world equipped with a full cargo of
knowledge.

You know how it's changed things. They had to cut the voting and
office-holding age to zero, of course.

We couldn't restrict office to adults, when our own kids were ten times
smarter than we were.

Half of Congress is under ten years old these days, and the big offices
are mostly filled with kid geniuses. I hear there's a twelve-year old
out in California that they're grooming for President.

What gets me, though, is this:

These kids of ours still keep piling new knowledge into their brains
with EE. Now, twenty or thirty years from now, what are _their_
kids going to be like? I do some wondering about that.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KNOWLEDGE MACHINE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
